**THE SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS (SOGP)**

The School of Government and Politics (SOGP), has been inspired by the
critical and overarching essence of creating a critical mass of
political leaders, regenerated leaders currently in service as well as
next generation public service professionals to evolve and drive
strategic and systematic policies and programmes to maximise Nigeria’s
potentials as well as enhance Nigeria’s competitiveness in the global
economy and league of nations. In response to the seemingly intractable
leadership crisis in Nigeria, SOGP exists to strengthen and expand
leadership capacity as well as promote citizens engagement initiatives
that result in an enlightened, empowered electorate, civil society
organisations and critical stakeholders demanding stewardship from
elected leaders.

The vision of the SOGP is to activate nation changers, reformers and
believers to become influencers in the sphere of Government and Politics
through structured professional development programmes and initiatives
to build transformational leaders in Government and Politics. It has
become imminent and urgent to evolve a development and governance
paradigm undergirded by strong servant-spirited, leadership in the
executive, legislative and administrative arms of government imbued with
a sense of mission and equipped to serve in their respective spheres and
capacities. Gearing the machinery of governance to achieve the cardinal
objective of forging the institutional and intergovernmental linkages
which facilitate the design and delivery of public policies that
engender accelerated, inclusive and integrated, multi-sector economic
development on a sustainable basis.

SOGP draws its existential paradigm and operational strategy from our
deep understanding of the time tested role of Christian archetypes and
systems in the emergence of progressive nations. SOGP will become the
veritable vehicle to prepare the Josephs, Esthers and Daniels of our
time to be exemplars of good leadership as well as catalysts for social
change and development. Recognising Government as one of the Seven
Mountains of influence in any society, SOGP’s mandate is to bridge the
gap between Church and society; engage the tools of advocacy, mentoring,
education and training for social, economic and national transformation.

Through the programmes and initiatives, the School of Government and
Politics seeks to prepare reform spirited citizens, change agents and
leaders and inculcate values of honesty, faithfulness, loyalty,
patriotism, truthfulness, accountability, prudence and hard work in
order to strengthen the moral fabric of the society and boost ethical
reorientation, good democratic and public governance in the nation.

The School of Government and Politics will bridge ongoing interventions
by different institutions and platforms directed at enlightening,
preparing, building capacities, capabilities and understanding of public
leadership as well as the citizenry.

The strategic direction for SOGP is provided by a Governing Council as
well as The Thinkers Circle who are engaged in curating the programmes
and initiatives of the Institution.

**VISION**

To be at the cutting edge of research, thought leadership and become the
leading African interventionist professional development institution
delivering specialised, need based, innovative world class education in
Government and Politics towards equipping existing and emerging leaders
with transformational skills and competencies creating a sea change in
the development landscape of Africa’s emerging economies especially
Nigeria.

**MISSION**

Design and deliver educational and professional development programmes
in leadership, politics, public policy, public management, international
relations and development for emerging and succeeding generations of
African leaders in the public and private sector empowering them to
engage in all domains of government and governance to deliver economic
prosperity and unleash the creative capacities of the citizenry for a
secure and sustainable future through global partnerships..

**OVERVIEW OF PROGRAMMES**

-   Executive Development Programmes including open enrolment and
    > customised programmes, symposia.

-   Public Policy Research and Advocacy Centres

-   Strategic Initiatives such as Cross Stakeholder and Citizens
    > Engagement

-   Development and delivery of specialised degree programmes in Public
    > Policy, Governance, Development Studies in collaboration with
    > strategic international partner institutions

**RAISON D’ETRE:**

-   To bridge the gaping gap in leadership development required for good
    > democratic governance and public service excellence

-   To respond to the evident challenges of technical capacity building
    > for serving and emerging members of the political class as well as
    > public service professionals across the tiers and arms of
    > government that are central in the formulation, implementation of
    > development policies; legislative and regulatory frameworks for
    > public management.

-   To serve as a Policy Think Tank and clearing house for the
    > gathering, funnelling and dissemination of valuable research
    > reports and data as inputs for development and governance.

-   To promote public discourse on politics, policy and the polity to
    > raise the standards in terms of quality leadership; stewardship
    > and public accountability, development administration as well as
    > the electoral process.

-   To generate a critical mass of equipped and mission-oriented leaders
    > at all levels of governance to engender change and innovation;
    > build stronger institutions that will drive public service reforms
    > and delivery of the public goods.

-   Inculcate the spirit of leadership; ignite the leadership potential
    > of the citizens and imbue a strong consciousness for public
    > probity, shared responsibility for the attainment of national
    > development as well as national ethic of social equity standards
    > that de-emphasises grand larceny, the celebration of certified
    > treasury looters and stimulation of earnest enterprise.

-   Forge broad based international partnerships with international
    > schools of government, politics and public policy, faith based
    > organisations, global scholars, leaders create and reinvent on a
    > continuing basis content, pedagogy and platforms to build core
    > leadership and public administration skills that become part of
    > their essential and existential core.

**DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA AND THE LEADERSHIP QUESTION **

Africa is often described as the dark continent but so resource rich and
full of prospects to be at the centre of a global shift of investment
interests that have led to the emergence of what is now described as The
New Scramble for Africa.

The continent has been plagued by long internecine wars and conflicts in
many nations. These centres of conflict are evidently inhibiting the new
wave of investments and development cooperation funds to help to enhance
sustainable human development and human security in African communities
and nations. The prospects become even more dreary with the leadership
crisis on the continent. It is well known that the Mo Ibrahim Foundation
which published the Ibrahim Index of African Governance(IIAG) and
instituted the prestigious Mo Ibrahim Prize for Achievement in
Leadership which did not announce Laureates of the coveted over several
cycle of the Awards.

Reinventing government and governance in African nations requires
accelerated a systematic, integrated, multi-pronged approach to citizens
engagement, national re-orientation, mainstreaming leadership education
into the education system and the active initiatives of institutions
such as the School of Government and Politics.

**NIGERIA: LEVERAGING DEVELOPMENT THROUGH LEADERSHIP**

Nigeria is indisputably Africa’s largest economy, most populous black
nation and is ranked as the seventh most populous country in the world.
Though resource rich, endowed with diverse mineral and natural
resources, Nigeria is still a mono-product economy as oil and gas
remains the largest contributor to the nation’s GDP. Often categorised
in the Goldman Sachs League of Next Eleven Nations that are projected to
become the largest economies in the world in the 21st century, Nigeria’s
economic potential when diversified, deepened, maximised and fully
leveraged can bring explosive growth to the continent and positively
affect the dynamics of the global market economy and global governance.
Yet Nigeria’s development is stymied by the twin factors of leadership
and human capital development. It is indeed a matter of people:
strengthening and streaming strong leaders in all facets of national
life to serve and delivering public service with passion,
professionalism and a strong sense of patriotism.

Leadership can indeed steer the course of Nigeria’s development
trajectory towards engaging broad based national movement of personal,
public excellence to engender systemic and systematic change in the
polity.

With one hundred and five years since the Northern and Southern
protectorates were amalgamated to create Nigeria in 1914 and with
Nigeria now standing at the cusp of six decades since independence and
yet racked by cyclical, seemingly intractable challenge of leadership,
it is imminent to expand the systems and platforms that produce
pipelines of operatives that function in the public service and
marketplace.

It is evident that Nigeria’s development debacle is exacerbated by sheer
lack of political will and commitment with regard to policy
implementation through government dispensations; policy reversals,
prebendalism, dysfunctional and ill equipped public service, chronic
cronyism that leads

to the exclusion of fervid technocrats keen on real problem solving and
social engineering initiatives to Nigeria’s challenges.

Vested interests that have infested the establishment and have become
ingrained in the woodwork of a system whose institutional capacity has
been greatly weakened need to be regenerated to be architects of
innovation in governance and government.

This state of affairs explains why White papers on several Public
Commissions are jettisoned; solutions to social services delivery,
security, electricity, agricultural transformation exist but are not
implemented. The leadership situation is a reflection of the dictum that
education and qualifications do not translate to adroitness in public
service excellence..

With more than 90 million of the population under the age of 18 years,
by far its most valuable resource is its versatile, hardworking,
entrepreneurial people. Favorable oil prices in recent years combined
with appropriate macroeconomic policies have in recent years boosted
economic development in Nigeria.

Injecting elected or recruited officials into the executive,legislative
or administrative arms of government at the state and federal levels
must come with a concomitant commitment to equip and re-orient them on
the value of exemplary, servant-spirited leadership as the means to a
regenerated public service delivery system.

Nigeria needs an emerging generation of leaders in public service and
governance who are not just signed up for professional development but
are incentivised, committed to exemplifying excellence in public
service.

If statecraft is an art and a science then the time has come to
strengthen the infrastructure and platforms for the “culturing” of
leaders who are being entrusted with public management at levels of
government.

Despite the existence of specialist institutions such as the National
institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, the Public Service Training
Institute of Nigeria, the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria, the
Centre for Management Development, the Civil Service Training Centres in
the states as well as the Departments of Public Administration in some
Nigerian Universities there is an acute shortage of leadership and
public policy institutions structured and equipped to bridge the gap in
well oriented work force in the public service at all levels.

Ineffectual leadership, weak institutions as well as public service
delivery system remain the achilles heel of Nigeria’s development
strides. As Nigeria stands on the threshold of another democratic
dispensation the School of Government and Politics has emerged to
provide the learning platform and resource centre to prepare and
strengthen technical capacity to engender a better society while seeking
to galvanize individuals, communities, civil society organisations to
respond to the clarion call of of assuming collective responsibility for
the establishment of transformational and transgenerational development
paradigm that transcends the quicksands of contemporary Nigerian
political experience.

Economic pundits and analysts have depicted an emerging pattern
described as the new Scramble for Africa where development partners are
jockeying for influence and control of the enormous natural and mineral
resources as well as economic opportunities through the deployment of
vast investments and development cooperation funds into specific
national destinations with high growth potentials such as Nigeria.

The School of Government and Politics is therefore poised to intervene
in the development of regenerated and adequately re-oriented corps of
political leaders and public service professionals in Nigeria and across
the African continent helping to evolve and implement development
programmes through a robust public policy environment that undergirds
good democratic and public governance.

**TIMELINE OF RECENT INITIATIVES:**

-   22^nd^ -24^th^October, 2018: Under the auspices of the SOGP
    > organised a Forum titled “Towards Sustainable Development”
    > featuring speakers such as Senator Rose Oko, H.E Peter Obi,
    > Hon.Chudi Jones. Eminent Leaders including Ambassador Kema Chikwe,
    > H.E Senator Liyel Imoke and Mr. Steve Oronsaye attended the maiden
    > Forum.

-   29^th^ of November 2018: Hosted a panel on “Politics and Good
    > Governance in Nigeria”.

-   23^rd^ of January, 2018: Inauguration of the School of Government
    > under the auspicious Leadership of Apostle Chuck Pierce of Glory
    > of Zion International Ministries,Texas in the United States.


