**SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS (SOGP)**

The School of Government and Politics (SOGP) has the overarching
objective of creating a critical mass of leaders to drive strategies,
policies and programmes that will help Nigeria to maximise her potential
as well as enhance her global competitiveness.

In response to the country’s seemingly intractable leadership crisis,
SOGP exists to strengthen and expand leadership capacity as well as
promote citizens engagement that results in an enlightened, empowered
electorate.

The vision of the SOGP is to develop transformational leaders in the
sphere of government and politics through structured professional
development programmes and initiatives. It has become necessary to
evolve a development and governance paradigm – undergirded by genuine
servant-leadership in the executive, legislative and judicial arms of
government – that is imbued with a sense of mission. Engaging the
machinery of government to achieve the cardinal objective of forging the
institutional and inter-sectoral linkages that facilitate the design and
delivery of public policies that engender accelerated, inclusive and
integrated economic development on a sustainable basis.

SOGP draws its inspiration from time-tested archetypes that heralded the
emergence of modern progressive nations. It aims to prepare catalysts
for social change and development that are patterned after key
historical figures as exemplars of good leadership. Recognising
Government as one of society’s pillars of influence, SOGP’s mandate
includes engaging the tools of advocacy, monitoring, education and
training for social, economic and national transformation.

SOGP, through its programmes and activities, seeks to prepare
reform-spirited citizens, change agents and leaders and inculcate values
of honesty, faithfulness, loyalty, patriotism, truthfulness,
accountability, prudence and hard work in order to strengthen the moral
fabric of society and boost ethical reorientation, good democratic and
public governance in the nation.

SOGP will bridge on-going interventions by different institutions and
platforms directed at enlightening, preparing, building capacities
capabilities and understanding of public leadership as well as the
citizenry.

The strategic direction for SOGP is provided by a Governing Council as
well as The Thinkers Circle who are engaged in curating the programmes
and initiatives of the institution.

**VISION**

Raising kingdom minded people to influence the government and political
sphere of society.

**MISSION**

Design and deliver educational and professional development programmes
in leadership, politics, public policy, public management, international
relations and development for emerging and succeeding generations of
African leaders in the public and private sector empowering them to
engage in all domains of government of government and governance to
deliver economic prosperity and unleash the creative capacities of the
citizenry for a secure and sustainable future through global
partnerships.
